This ZIP file holds 3 patches, all intended for use with the basic Game Boy 
Wars 3 ROM:

*PALBal - short for PAL Balance, this patch involves many gameplay mechanic 
changes. A general list will be provided below.

*LoadET - short for Loading End Turn. Vanilla GBW3 has an oversight where 
loading a unit does not set the moved flag for the unit's cargo, even though 
moving the grandchildren unit(s) becomes impossible. This isn't incredibly 
game-breaking, but it does inconvenience shifting through units with 
Start+Left/Right.

*AutoET - short for Auto End Turn. With this hack active, when a player is 
deemed unable to make any more moves, their phase will be ended automatically 
like what happens in any Fire Emblem from 6 onwards. The AET triggers even 
with Auto-Supply On, though it's unlikely a player will care. All of the other 
conditions are covered, including the Reserve mechanic in Campaign, and the 
changes in LoadET are included by necessity. Keep in mind that the price 
checks are built with the PALBal hack in mind, so here are the addresses with 
the relevant instructions for those who can work with something like GBRead:
-Grunt (HQ/City/Factory): 3816D
-Transport Helicopter (Airport): 3817E
-Tanker (Harbor): 3818F

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The purpose of PALBal

I may as well mention how Game Boy Wars 3 is a game full of ideas that have 
not been put to use in the later games of the Nintendo Wars series. These are 
actually good, from the income development and terrain changing of the Work 
Car, to a stronger variety of unit types, to the subtraction defense for cover 
that favors units with more defensive power or better burst damage (HELLO, 
ANTI-AIR TANK), to balance that is handled around City-level cover, to 
surprisingly intuitive math in battle calculations, to an experience system 
that even rewards overcoming adversity.

Of course, these ideas being stuffed right into a 1MB GBC game, there were 
inevitabily going to be problems. The most glaring in vanilla GBC, by far, are 
the Gold price gaps. How bad are the gaps? On a map with 15 Gold Income 
properties per side with max Strength properties, a freaking Lander requires at 
least a full Day of banking, and a Submarine or Aegis Warship requires 
*THREE*. This is an almost extreme example, but it is nevertheless a good 
indication of how overly subscribed to realism that GBW3 was capable of 
getting forgetting that it's still a game where an air-to-air fighter and a 
dived submarine could block each other. Not to say that the realism was 
necessarily bad in light of the gameplay quirks resulting from attention to 
detail such as the Lite Attacker's VTOL status being why it refuels from 
Supply Trucks rather than Supply Planes, but it could have stood to be more 
wary of some of the resulting problems.

For those who wonder what would happen in PVP in vanilla GBW3? Bazooka spam 
that would use the built up money and inflated numbers to whip out kiter tech 
units such as Artillery. So much for welcome interaction.

The intent of PALBal is to provide PAL-style balancing that would flesh out 
the ideas that Game Boy Wars 3 had to where they could have useful effect. It 
even turns out that GBW3's intended idea of player phase friendliness was 
flanking bonuses, as the player in control is more able to utilize them. While 
the handling was off, it was definitely worth exploring to avoid having to 
change the Focus system, the other elephant in the room about GBW3's sense of 
balance. That, by the way, is getting its own section, because do I have stuff 
to say. 

First, though, the list of changes.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

PALBal changes

*Various unit stat changes - there's quite a few of these, so I'd have to dig 
up a good way to compare. Rest assured that the Gold price gaps have been 
severely nerfed, and while Bazooka units can now range fire on Lite Land 
units, their DEF values have been dropped and they now have to worry about the 
economy the Work Car can provide with the higher amount of "ammo" that unit 
has.

There are also some changes that are a nod to Battalion Wars, by the way.

*Deployment ability improvement - 5 space deployment is useful compared to the 
ever confining 3 spaces. Additionally, now controlled Factories and Harbors 
can deploy from ANYWHERE, further encouraging land force and navy management. 
This should result in improved gameplay.

*Harbors now provide Materials in addition to Gold - some of us are not fans 
of either the pandemic or the Russia-Ukraine War, and while I have benefitted 
from both keeping society's less than welcome traits short-leashed, I will 
say that people would still appreciate those nice little trade routes. Players 
themselves would also welcome appealing targets to develop with the Work Car 
ASAP for indirectly better Gold availability via earlier Materials payoff with 
mitigated drawback.

*Property recovery rate increased "slightly" - by "slightly", I would mean 
it's improved by 1 HP at Property Strength values at multiples of 10, though 
with a hard cap of 4 HP recovery this way to avoid a graphical glitch. Base 
healing was just too slow before, so this should strike a fine balance where 
the Work Car's development still will have value.

*EXP gain rates increased all around - EXP gain rates in vanilla GBW3 are just 
atrocious. They work the way they do because of Campaign where units already 
carry over between maps, but otherwise, the level ups are simply too few and 
far between. With the increased EXP, level ups will be a lot more reasonable.

Combat EXP is a lot less reliant on HP damage. Mere participation is actually 
its own reward now, and the underdog bonus is significanlty improved. Also of 
note, there is defensive EXP to be wary of especially when range attacking. 
This simply incentivizes more methodical attacking, without boosting the 
defender too much because the defensive EXP can be lost with the unit itself. 
Please also note that Damage/Kill EXP is reduced against newly deployed 
enemy units.

*Properties provide EXP at the start of the phase - this needed its own point 
because it's a unique feature that I added that the Nintendo Wars series 
really would work well with to disrupt spam via map control. When a unit is 
on a valid resupply property, they will gain EXP proportional to their old HP 
and the property's Strength value. This will not apply to any newly deployed 
units, though predeployed units will still gain the EXP. The values are 
subtle, so Work Car risk assessment would be more desirable for making the 
most of this.

*Air units have a new Cover system - don't worry, stats have been adjusted 
accordingly. Air units get a base amount of Cover both as a sort of realism 
factor, and to better incentivize good gameplay against them via the adjusted 
stats. In return, planes are vulnerable to range fire and enemy planes in this 
regard, stacking with each other; while helicopters partially benefit from 
terrain with better cover as well as resist range fire.

*Sea has 10 Cover - the whole point of this is to help emphasize sea units as 
Mighty Glaciers. 10 Cover isn't a lot, but it cuts down on MGs dealing silly 
amounts of damage to them with flanking, so it gets the job done.

Oh, and for the record, GBW3 would have arguably better navy warfare than the 
other Nintendo Wars games if not for a certain elephant in the room that the 
patch at least addresses. GBW3 at least tries to provide competent interaction 
between air and sea units, and VERY arguably land and sea units too.

*Sea units now have Fuel Upkeep - like in the AWs. And like in the AWs, it's 
subtle. This isn't too big, but it is something to give the Tanker value so 
as to make that thing able to become a halfway serviceable flanker.

*Fuel low trigger now happens for sub-37.5% - originally happening only at 
20 Fuel or below, now the Fuel low trigger happens at the sweetspot between 
too subtle (AW1/2's 25%) and too lenient (AWDS's 50%). Note that this doesn't 
apply to the mini-status window displaying only HP and Fuel.

*Flanking stat changes favor attacker more - flanking boosts encourage the 
player to manage, well, flanking. Unfortunately, the defender gets boosts too 
depending on the attacker's own position. As a result, the defender's benefits 
have been completely halved, and the attacker's support boosts have been 
doubled as well.

*Flanking defense penalties now favor base damage and countering Cover - this 
is inspired by a video on Critical Hits in Pokemon talking about how Crits 
bolster siege-based offense by ignoring defense boosts and offense penalties 
(in later games, mind you) allowing for busting up overly defensive teams. Now 
instead of simply reducing Total DEF, the defense penalty instead gets added 
to the opponent's ATK percent boost and is a maximum amount of the defense 
bonus that is ignored. The values are changed up in return, but the end result 
includes full surrounding changed from 2.5 HP extra damage affected by the 
defending unit's HP, to a +40% ATK boost that effectively has Forests 
treated as Roads before involvement of further defense boosts.

*Communication Towers provide Gold and global power boosts - taken directly 
from Days of Ruin, but for those not familiar, Comm Towers provide income and 
also give all units +5% per Comm Tower in both ATK and DEF. GBW3 uses 
basically the same values, albeit with Total DEF being increased by +2.5% 
instead of +5% per Tower--4 Comm Towers are needed to cut a full HP of damage. 
Note that this boost caps at +200% to prevent glitchy calculations, not that 
players should ever get that much in the first place except for kicks and 
giggles. Also note that the boosts are not shown in-game in the midst of 
avoiding calculation complications with EXP as well.

*Range fire comes with attack penalties - in Version 0.9, range fire 
received a 10% attack penalty per space between the units. At some point, 
longtime friend MarioMastar was talking about how Grit likes his fortresses 
and came the Eureka Moment. Now the range fire penalties are revamped: 
if the range attacker doesn't move, they get only 5% penalty for each space 
beyond what is needed for range attacking. If they do move, it's a much more 
different story, because now the reduction is 30% base in addition to a 
further 10% for each additional space. This should result in some hopefully 
more rewarding gameplay with units like the Artillery. Stats have been 
adjusted accordingly as well.

*Attacking unit +15 Focus with accommodating values - when all is said and 
done, first attack is still desirable, but some enemy phase friendliness can 
help with unit balance. The Attacker will definitely live up to its name a 
lot better, for example. I could even get going on things like giving the 
Work Car a whopping FIVE Focus Loss, hee hee.

*Reduced mobility when moving off of an already moved transport - while being 
able to do this at all to take an action immediately is still around, its 
effectiveness is reduced to where if the transport has moved, an unloading 
unit will be stuck with only half their Movement Power, although rounded up. 
This makes an option that has not even been available with the Aircraft 
Carrier in Days of Ruin more of a risky burst maneuver for the transport. 
And fortunately, all 3 involved Beginner Mode maps are basically unaffected, 
although Class 9 may prove intimidating now.

*Supply Truck and Tanker auto-repairs adjacent surface units - both the 
Supply Truck and the Tanker have questionable usefulness, relying on the 
resupply aspect to be handy. The Supply Truck could see some use in refueling 
a helicopter here and there, but the Tanker's inability to restock units that 
particularly need it is a problem forever and makes the Tanker arguably THE 
least useful unit in the entire Nintendo Wars series. Healing ability fixes 
this, in a way where "Direct-Fire Folly" just becomes an alternative term for 
the Peltzman Effect rather than an excuse to abuse Stallworks Artillery, Inc., 
given healing benefits close range combat units more even with repair costs 
applying.

The healing works as such: at the beginning of the player's phase, ally units 
adjacent to the supplier get healed, although their Fuel and Ammo won't be 
restocked this way. In addition to usual repair fees applying, the supplier 
will use 1 "Ammo" of their Supplies when any healing at all is done, but will 
heal fellow suppliers where applicable. The Supply Truck will heal only land 
units, and at a lower rate than the Tanker as as well. The Tanker heals both 
land and sea units, at a faster HP rate for land units, and the targets for 
healing does in fact include Submarines. As for the Supply Plane, it's good 
enough, even having flanking bonus provision, so it doesn't get this benefit.

Please note that this can't be turned off by disabling Auto-Supply. Addressing 
that would require more ASM management than I would welcome. Besides, the 
player is making a choice when deploying these non-attacking units.

*More available Campaign features - goes without saying that Badges and 
Mercenary Units being online-exclusive was a problem.

*All units possible to purchase on VS Mode - just something to make VS Mode 
a good deal better. Price balance is done with this in mind.

*A few bugfixes - resupplying the secondary weapon charged based on the 
primary weapon, which didn't make sense. Additionally, there's a bit of 
idiocy involving the Bomber that gets patched out--just because its influence 
in vanilla GBW3 was too miniscule doesn't mean I'll say what it is on this 
document.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Player phase friendliness points

Turn-based strategy games are slower than other genres because they are built 
to allow players to take their time and figure out how to utilize the 
potential of their resources. It's the reason Chess Clocks exist: to provide 
a time-based challenge where players can start making mistakes, while also 
stopping spiteful stalling. The point of player phase friendliness is to make 
doubly sure that gameplay can get to stay kinetic rather than allow turtling.

What the Advance Wars games do to provide player friendliness is accommodate 
the Nintendo Wars series' attack power proportional to HP system with first 
strike. This provides added defensive power for the attacker as a result of 
reduced counterdamage. With the standard 55% matchup, the attacker's units 
take 2-3 HPs of damage with first strike compared to 7-9 without.

GBW3, by contrast, uses the Focus system, where the unit with higher Focus by 
enough strikes first, and doesn't think to give extra Focus to the attacker to 
counterbalance the reduction of Focus they get from moving. This system is 
intended to reward units sitting closer to the action, but there are quite 
a few ambushes that are going to happen anyway.

How, then, does vanilla GBW3 have decent player phase friendliness that 
helps directs?

One of the big reasons is subtraction defense on boosts. Unit variety helps by 
also upping the standard to 7 HPs of damage, but subtraction defense on boosts 
allows units to go after targets with only moderate counterdamage against even 
when they do get the ambush off. A 5 HP unit is far less threatening than a 
10 HP unit because there is less damage to even reduce.

Flanking boosts also help. Technically, they're penalties for the flanked unit 
aside from invisible support boosts, but even units such as the Supply Truck 
can still help set up the flanking boosts, silly as that sounds. Once they're 
set up, the opposing unit suffers a sharp drop in offense, in addition to the 
extra damage they can just as easily take. Suffice to say that chip KOing is a 
lot safer despite the ambush shenanigans.

GBW3 also has higher standard mobility among the combat-capable units. Not 
only are there faster land units that can, natch, flank better, but Movement 
Costs aren't as high because GBW3 is not afraid to use mixed number MCs. And 
of course, mobility is actually directly controlled by the active player, 
which speaks for itself.

There is also, believe it or not, the EXP system. The patch tones it up 
because it's too abysmal in vanilla GBW3, but the toning up generally 
emphasizes the game's original intent: to punish thoughtless and especially 
uncaring behavior by the opponent. Range fire involves defensive EXP because 
it punishes mere existence of opposing units if not checked well. The thing 
about EXP is, its usefulness is tied to that of the unit's, which hurts 
defensive EXP because the unit can still be removed from play. Offensive EXP 
rewards methodical attacks by contrast, as they can estimate survival on 
enemy phase that lets the unit escape to where it can get repaired. It is 
quite natural that the active player can control the flow of EXP.

What I ultimately want to point to, is how first strike becomes questionable 
in its method of providing player phase friendliness. Yes there is some sense 
of raw power. That's the thing: relying on raw power in a strategy game. Just 
because I personally take issue with games rewarding kiting from how a 5YO 
can come up with it, does not mean that brain-dead melee rushing isn't even 
more mindless. This is also where I take issue with the way Days of Ruin 
handles the CO Unit system, which punishes the opponent for daring to consider 
the mere concept of flanking. Really, the similar enough manual unit system of 
Battalion Wars amplifies the weaknesses of the manual unit, as the Recon can 
attest to in its inability to directly contest armor well while lacking 
sufficiently unique strong points.

I'm not saying first strike under the attack power proportional to HP system 
shouldn't be used, but it should be at least better understood in order to 
avoid needless favoritism of Fragile Speedster units, as it's the Mighty 
Glacier who tends to draw the short straw in game balance, often I find 
because law of diminishing isn't accounted for by developers. Accommodation 
of bravery, the MASTERY of fear rather than the absence of it, is how players 
evolve better, not practicing the same tired thing and exploiting any safety 
to be had with it.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Closing stuff

Here are the version notes:
*0.9 - most stuff done.
*Post-0.9 - check GBW3PalBalChangelog.txt for details

And for those who want to contact me, here's my IM info:
*Skype - mknightdh
*Discord - MasterKnightDH#2492

Please use these if you want to report any bugs to me. There shouldn't be any 
left despite the ASM changes, other than aesthetic things, but I never know.