NOTE 5/5/2022: this letter was originally written back in October 28, 2021. I made a couple of edits, one to fix a grammar error before I have to worry about being banned for it by vanilla TV Tropes and another to provide an addendum name in an important point. Otherwise, my points are virtually unchanged, although I recommend overviewing what I had to say about the Russia-Ukraine War and its surrounding politics in its own text document for more up-to-date information.

To Nintendo and WayForward,

If you are an employee or some such of either company reading this, then I have no doubt that you'd be taking some sort of active interest in this, to which I would be hoping that you'd be doing that toward Advance Wars By Web first, given how long that site has lasted with its purpose of perpetually online matches. Here would be the link to that, by the way:
https://awbw.amarriner.com/

Of course, we would both know why you'd be here, given Nintendo's track record of how they have treated fanworks such as Another Metroid 2 Remake. By the way, I prefer Samus Returns to AM2R because of Samus Returns' better combat and control. Regardless, I am aware that game hacking is a legally grey area, one that Japan doesn't have a fondness of. I will agree that this sort of thing should be handled with care, even if Nintendo does need to start caring about the consumers, obviously YMMV but still my stance.

Since this is supposed to be the point where I would otherwise simply say "buy the game, support the companies," this brings me to the point of this letter: negotiation.

While I did not make Game Boy Wars 3, that credit fully going to the team at Hudson Soft, I did manage plenty of handiwork with patches that expands on the game's design actively. I would welcome being able to channel these skills and notions through more legally clean methods from which I could get payment that would be useful for things like managing the patchwork of my parents' house, a God awful mess even before it suffered that miserable maggot-filled toilet over 25 years ago and eventually indirectly claimed both of my parents' lives from resulting disease. I write this so as to call out a bland effort to just DMCA me and be done with it, and I will print this letter to ensure that you won't be able to silence this letter to censor evidence. I certainly already know Nintendo already has to worry about being called out for things like Joycon Drift and overpriced, malfunctioning online.

Game Boy Wars 3 becomes worth bringing up on its own merits when it comes to the Advance Wars series, or rather, the Nintendo Wars series. It has nearly double the unit type count of Dual Strike or Days of Ruin, take your pick, and it uses its mechanics such as the Unit Family system, the range fire unit differentiation, and arguably better damage calculations through subtractive terrain defense to streamline as much. The Work Car is also a stellar unit concept for providing a map control booster that can be attacked into increasingly easily if carelessly handled. Of course, it has its clear-cut misfires such as the Focus system imbalances and the price gaps, which is where my patches ultimately come in. I do mix in unique ideas like property EXP provisions, as well as the various nods to Battalion Wars (the regular Fighter for example getting 1~2 Range in reference to its ability as a manually controlled unit to command snipe in BW), but in general, my PALBal patch aims to bolster what does work and tone down what doesn't.

This becomes worth bringing up because I have already seen complaints about Advance Wars Re-Boot Camp, primarily the graphics, but I think some people have called out about it being a borderline straight up port without consideration for map design. Personally, I can point out that the map "Air Ace" would be impossible to do No Casualties even on Normal Campaign if Eagle were to actually time his Lightning Strike usage when his Bomber gets something to attack on its first move instead of only caring that it's ready. Look at that, the Treehouse presentation has that happen. This is one of the dangers of a 1:1 level design port. I haven't forgotten about all the horror stories with Rivals AC in the original AW1; I may have the first single-segment Perfect S-Rank of that level on my YouTube channel, but this does NOT make Rivals AC, the same level that still lacks any Forests, Mountains, or Reefs while also having its primary demanded "strategy" in a level about vehicles capable of moving in 3 dimensions ask for lewd jokes, any more competently designed. This is also not even going into how AW1 and AW2 on the same cart was actually already done on the GBA itself, although in a Japan-only release.

I trust that this provides sufficient reason to bring up Game Boy Wars 3 as a sort of idea factory for gameplay. Even if the ideas from either Game Boy Wars 3 or the patches that I provide are not going to be perfect, I would sooner trust that the ideas involved would definitely improve gameplay by stimulating players' minds and hearts, which game design in general needs more of. To be sure, remaking the Advance Wars games directly is always going to provide questions, to which I can bring up Samus Returns when it was built off of Metroid 2 for the original Game Boy, because Samus Returns was stuck with Metroid 2's linear structure that didn't sit well with a lot of people, but the Melee Counter was a VERY sound piece of gameplay even if it needed finetuning such as better balanced mook health, and the Aeion system complemented it via persistent incentive of risk assessment as well. I don't know what point of the development cycle Re-Boot Camp is at, but I'd rather bring forward the notions I call to attention in the interest of future endeavors with the Nintendo Wars series having innovations that improve the gameplay, something to help characters like Max need only 120% ATK, not the competitively broken as sin 150% ATK direct fire units and his AW1 range fire unit stat changes (yes, including the uncommonly known defense deficit) to still have plenty of expressive gameplay.

The summary of this part is that I aim not to make money off of these works, or definitely not directly, but for the works to improve.

Still, that does become more difficult when my ability to do anything gets a bit barred by nasty communities. You might notice that I "credited" the Advance Wars communities, RoahmMythril's clique, and vanilla TV Tropes for things that would have been very helpful. Truth is, the crediting to MarioMastar and the Japanese site owners (addendum 5/5/2022: and Areaxis the Gurkha) is the only non-sarcastic crediting there. The groups I call out with the sardonic crediting did the respective "instead of" things. If you don't believe me about the Advance Wars communities being needlessly hostile, I need only point to these two archive links:
https://web.archive.org/web/20210717093316/https%3A%2F%2Fisndev.forumotion.co.uk%2Ft657p25-who-s-still-here-roll-call (last 3 posts were deleted on the actual URL--yes, including the one by Nyvelion)
https://web.archive.org/web/20211007192547/https%3A%2F%2Fwww.reddit.com%2Fr%2FAdvance_Wars%2Fcomments%2Fq14e3e%2Fwhy_i_am_disappointed%2F (victim blaming toward a user named Kartal)
https://archive.fo/5Zgrn

That last link is a point of interest in that XenesisXenon is telling an anonymous user calling for evidence to look up the evidence themselves rather than actually provide a link to the allegations, something that would not be difficult for a non-bandwagoner. Case in point:
https://www.reddit.com/r/fireemblem/comments/hnwdpx/links_to_mangs_sexual_assault_allegations/
And I can cite how I myself called out Mangs a few days before the mass allegations for bad behavior that Mangs threw in my direction already, given how Mangs was then claiming that he had a bad childhood, something he chose to take it out on people who did not comply with his tyranny. I didn't even know that Mangs' own post was about a group calling him out for mistreatment of women and prejudiced groups, to which it makes me glad that cases of desperation on my part were not made worse by gambitting so much on this unrepentant lecherous scumbag. Too bad Mangs tried to sweep this under the rug, but nah, let's not care about how Mangs literally raped a woman at an anime convention and basically confessed, I'm the evil one for making some bite of sarcasm from over a decade ago. Clearly I would never post on the Facebook page of a disabilities daycare center I've been client to to call to attention about a mid-to-late 40s female staff member who had proven herself quite vibrant suddenly sounding lifeless while handling work past legal capacity with blatantly insufficient counterbalance, no matter what sort of risk that would entail in this gynocentric state calling itself democratic.

You can tell that I use a LOT of sarcasm. I wish to call it a defense mechanism against this broken society, even if I do confess to liking being sagacious in general.

Lesson is, the Wills and Brenners of the world need to listen to and particularly talk with their Lins, but we need the people in positions of power to be Wills and Brenners, not Waylons and Greyfields. Too bad the likes of vanilla TV Tropes miss that memo and instead ban people from their site for mere grammar errors. I don't know how far reaching this letter is going to be, but anything is better than nothing.

By the way, I will let you, Nintendo and WayForward, know right now that if you're the ones communicating with me, I will need definitive proof of that, because I do know that impersonation attempts are a thing, and besides which, I'd rather not have my efforts in handling my Game Boy Wars 3 patches get so blatantly short-circuited by corporation spite. I need to say this often repeated message: I'll believe corporations are people when the tyrannical state known as Texas executes one.

My hope is that I am met with sufficient compliasance. My preparation for if I am not is this letter.

Sincerely,
Master Knight DH