VERSION 1.1 is a very important hotfix, that makes the Heal Party item unusable in Viridian Forest, since it 
freezes the game there for some strange reason. Hopefully no further band-aids of this sort will need to be applied. 
It also changes the "Option" menu to "Options," since I always found that annoying.

VERSION 1.2 is a minor update, that mainly reverts Missigno to its vanilla properties, done by means of some 
trainer changes (to move data around). It also localizes Missingno's Pokedex entry (although it does not seem to be 
viewable in game). Finally, the file overworld.bst was reverted to its original state, having been re-saved and 
possibly accidentally changed when editing Route 15.

VERSION 1.3 actually, finally fixes the Heal Party issues. It can be used, and works perfectly fine, in all areas, 
without the weird message at the end. Also, the Pokemon on Route 3 had their levels raised a bit, to make them less 
useless.

VERSION 1.3.1 is another minor update. Route 24 and 35 have had their wild data swapped and then edited a little, 
so that the water pokemon all actually appear next to the water. Clefairy has also had its learnset edited, so it 
does not learn a move it started with at the beginning. Finally, SonicBoom has had its accuracy lowered to 75, due 
to its great utility in the early game, and Struggle has changed to deal a constant damage of 20, to prevent 
ridiculous utility in the late game. Also, from now on, updates which do not fix non-cosmetic bugs, or touch very 
large amounts of data, will be labeled x.y.z, as this update is, to conserve numbers.

VERSION 1.4 changes just about every trainer in the game. Party pokemon has been greatly diversified, and now the 
trainers should be up to snuff with the movesets and wild data. As a bonus, the Daycare will now take pokemon who  
know HM moves, and the max level is now 99, not 100. The latter change was made because it was weird that the 
last level alone would stop the ":L" from appearing. Also, from this version on the Source Code will appear in the 
archive, so people have access to it and may iterate upon it.

VERSION 1.4.1 is a small fix to get rid of the godforsaken Low Health alarm, because it was driving me up the wall 
until I realized I could just get rid of it. If you can't read the numbers to see you're on low health, well that's 
your problem.

VERSION 1.5 is a very major update, which adds finite PP for enemies, and a bunch of other stuff. So much, in fact,  
that it gets its own, even less comprehensible file: 1.5 Changes.txt. The file is written in the style of a to-do list, 
so you will have to get used to seeing the future tense for completed features.

VERSION 1.5.1 does only one thing, making it so that Wrap et al. do not clear the Hyper Beam recharging status. This 
was done for two reasons:
- This removes the "Hyper Beam PP Underflow" glitch, which is now much easier to trigger since Hyper Beam only has 1 PP, 
  and more importantly can happen accidentally and ruin, in a sense, a favorite monster (or just make a fight unwinnable 
  if it happens to the enemy).
- Now that you can move during these attacks, removing this status is unnecessary, as it will just go away naturally. In 
  fact, this change removes a major, unneeded downside from Wrap and co., namely letting the opponent Hyper Beam twice
  in a row.
