
Welcome to Pokémon Crystal Version: Dunsparce Edition, version 1.

I worked very hard on this romhack, and I hope you enjoy it. I put my heart and soul into this to make Pokémon Crystal somewhat fresh and to add a new challenge to the previous game.

Please patch an existing Pokémon Crystal Version ROM with the included IPS file using a ROM patching program like LunarIPS.

---------------------------------

Tools used:

pokecrystal disassembly

Poké Edit GSC by yomama

GC Leader Editor by yomama

G2Map by xdaniel

GSC Wild Pokémon Editor by Harrison

-----------------------------------------

Some changes made to base game:

All 251 Pokémon have been made available without the use of trading, cheats, or glitches. Trade evolutions of Pokemon can be found in the wild, as can baby Pokemon and starter Pokemon. 

The fossils are available via in game trades.

Fairy type added, and Pokémon and moves introduced before Gen 3 that were changed to Fairy type in Gen 6 have been changed to that type.

Difficulty generally upped.

Some Pokémon types have changed (i.e. Blastoise is now Water/Steel, the Psyduck line is Water/Psychic, Meganium is now Grass/Fairy, Quilava and Typhlosion are now Fire/Ground, Feraligatr is now Water/Dark, etc.)

The Johto starters have received new signature moves. Typhlosion has received an attack called Magma Blast that guarantees a burn, which it learns at level 50. Feraligatr has received "Shadow Swim," a move similar to Feint Attack in that it never misses, which it also learns at level 50. Meganium has received "Flower Power," an attack that, once used, raises all the user's stats, which it learns at level 47.

Some Pokémon have had their base stats either buffed or nerfed. For example, Miltank's Defense has been nerfed by about 10, and the Pikachu line has been buffed entirely.

Trade evolutions have been made obsolete by using new methods to evolve.

Poliwhirl evolves into Politoed when it levels up with high friendship. It still evolves into Poliwrath when a Water Stone is used on it, however.

Kadabra now evolves into Alakazam at level 28.

Machoke now evolves into Machamp at level 39.

Graveler now evolves into Golem at level 33.

Haunter now evolves into Gengar at level 35.

Onix now evolves into Steelix at level 20.

Seadra now evolves into Kingdra at level 45 when its Attack stat is greater than its Defense stat.

Scyther now evolves into Scizor at level 34 when its Defense stat is greater than its Attack stat.

Porygon now evolves into Porygon2 at level 30.

The GS Ball, a key item used to obtain Celebi, is now available, thus making Celebi catchable.

Gym leaders and the Elite Four's Pokémon have had their levels raised. Some have even had new Pokémon added to their parties.

Blue's team has been changed to match his team at the end of RGBY.

Red's Espeon has been replaced with a Lapras. On top of that, Red's Pokémon have had their levels raised to raise difficulty. (I'm sorry in advance for this.)

Physical/Special split implemented.

Added the ability to run by pressing the B Button.

EXP can now be gained after catching a Pokémon.

TMs are reusable.

Added Volt Tackle.

Added evolution moves.

Low HP tone has been shortened to four beeps.

Mew, Mewtwo, Articuno, Zapdos, and Moltres are "pseudo-roaming" Pokémon. Unfortunately, I cannot figure out how to program them to be true roaming Pokémon. Until I figure out how to do so, they will remain in one area.

The shiny palette of Charizard has been changed to match modern Charizard's shiny.

The mechanics of the Moon Ball and Love Ball have been fixed. The Moon Ball now has a higher catch rate for Pokémon that evolve with a Moon Stone rather than Burn Heal (because for some reason that happened), and the Love Ball now has a higher catch rate for Pokémon of a different gender than the player's own rather than the same gender.

Wild encounter text changed to "A wild [Pokémon] appeared!" instead of "Wild [Pokémon] appeared!"

-------------------------------------------

Creator's note: Please, do not use Dunsparce. I beg of you, he is too powerful now. Nothing can stop Dunsparce from taking over the world now.

-------------------------------------------

Romhack created by SupremoMemeo
