Pokemon Argentum - Readme


Changelog-

	12/4/2020 - Initial release. 


Future Plans for the Project

	Once I can figure out why certain tools used to make this project do not seem to function with Silver, I will be updating the following:
	-Changing certain moves that aren't very good, and updating other sto their most powerful iterations that I am capable of making.
	-Updating certain Pokemon's Base Stats. Oh, Farfetch'd, how you have languished before Galar came to be...


What the hell is this?

	I'm going to start this off by saying this hack is not meant to be groundbreaking. Please get rid of any notions that would assume it is. It was, however, created with Swampert Tools, found at https://swamperttools.webs.com/downloads.htm and you should totally check them out if you're interested in making your own romhacks.

	As to this project... this romhack was made in a fit of mania for the sole purpose of killing boredom. It's intended to allow a single person to collect all 251 Pokemon in Gen 2 without needing pesky trades with other people... useful in the middle of a pandemic, eh? It also allows the repurchase of all TMs at the expense of the removal of the ability to purchase Mail and X items. (Except the Mail attached to that one Spearow you deliver... can't do anything about it. And I don't know anyone who depends on X Items before they were buffed, so...) Additionally, Gym Leaders and the Elite Four have had changes to increase the game's difficulty slightly. This is very notable with the Kanto Gym Leaders, as I increased their levels to reflect the fact they come AFTER fighting Lance. 

	One other thing I did, in a bit of vanity, was change CAL (the Pokemon Trainer House guy in Viridian) to a trainer that uses some of my favorite Pokemon, and renamed the trainer RUSTUS. His team's noted in the included Spoiler Log. Have fun.


What the hell is Argentum?

	Argentum is the chemical term for Silver. It's why the periodic symbol for Silver is Ag.


You're a damn nerd.

	-Super Nerd encounter music- Thank you.

How the hell do I make this work?

  1) Unzip the contents of the Pokemon Argentum ZIP archive to a folder using whatever program you're used to using
  2) Open flips (included with the download). You can also use whatever IPS patcher you're used to instead, if you'd prefer.
  3) Select "Apply Patch"
  4) Select the "Pokemon Argentum" patch and click Open.
  5) Select the unmodified "Pokemon Silver" rom that I am in no way legally allowed to tell you how to get. Copyright law can get bent for all I give a damn, but rules are rules, m8. Anyway, click Open. This should patch the file and you get a nice window saying it's successfully patched. 
  6) Open the patched ROM in whatever emulator of choice you use. If you don't have one, Google is your friend (I can personally vouch for bgb, as it is what I used for bugtesting.)

Where are all the TMs you mentioned?

	There's a seperate file in the archive that lists the repurchase locations of every TM by number.


Personal Recommendation

I recommend using this patch alongside Infinest's RTC Changer patch, found at http://www.romhacking.net/hacks/4451/.


Changes Made in total

The "Good To Know" info

Evolution

Poliwhirl - Evolve to Politoed via Sun Stone
Kadabra - Evolve to Alakazam at Level 35
Machoke - Evolve to Machamp at Level 38
Graveler - Evolve to Golem at Level 35
Slowpoke - Evolve to Slowking with Water Stone
Haunter - Evolve to Gengar at Level 36
Onix - Evolve to Steelix at Level 34
Horsea - Evolve to Seadra earlier (28 vs 32)
Seadra - Evolve to Kingdra at Level 39
Scyther - Evolve to Scizor via Sun Stone
Porygon - Evolve to Porygon2 at Level 30
Pichu - Evolve to Pikachu at Level 12
Cleffa - Evolve to Clefairy at Level 13
Igglybuff - Evolve to Jigglypuff at Level 14
Togepi - Evolve to Togetic at Level 20
Tyrogue - Evolves depending on stats at Level 6, learning a move in the process if it does at that time.


Learnsets

Sandshrew/Sandslash - Learn Dig at Level 20, Earthquake at Level 40/47
Poliwrath - learn Body Slam at Level 33
Kadabra/Alakazam - Learn Kinesis at Level 17
Farfetch'd - Learn Drill Peck at Level 40
Cloyster - Delayed learning Spike Cannon to Level 50 (so Shellder can learn Ice Beam first)
Onix - Learn Rock Slide at Level 48
Magikarp - Learns Tackle and Flail earlier (10 and 15 respectively)
Gyarados - Learns Thrash at Level 55
Mew - Learns Psybeam instead of Transform (Lv10), learns Recover at Level 60
Totodile Line - Learn Crunch at Level 55/58/62
Chikorita Line - Learn Petal Dance at level 54/59/65
Cyndaquil Line - Learn Extremespeed at Level 52/57/66
Chinchou Line - Learn Thunderbolt at Level 47/58
Pineco - Delayed Selfdestruct until Level 11 (No more Big Booms preventing capture)
Steelix - Learns DragonBreath at Level 34 and Rock Slide at Level 45
Delibird - Complete Overhaul of moveset. Learns all of the following: Peck, Powder Snow, Wing Attack, Protect, Faint Attack, Icy Wind, Drill Peck, Ice Beam
Skarmory - Learns Spikes at Level 31 and Drill Peck at Level 42
Tyrogue Evolution - Double Kick if Hitmonlee, Comet Punch if Hitmonchan, Rolling Kick if Hitmontop (each at Level 6)


Credit:

Rustus - Made the Hack with the tools noted.
Swampert Tools - Hosted the tools used, and made MartEd GSC and TradeEd GSC
Harrison - Made GSC Wild Pokemon Editor
Mateo - Made Item Editor GSC
Akwarelek - Made OneGSEdit and OneGSCTrainer