Pokémon Yellow: Cramorant Edition

A ROM hack of Pokemon Yellow which replaces Pikachu with Cramorant. Many other major and minor changes have been made to 
create (in my opinion) an overall better way to play Yellow, and by extension, the Generation I games. The goal of this 
project is to provide a fun and different way to play Yellow while adding more variety to the game, all while staying 
mostly true to the Generation I experience. A gigantic thanks to pret (pokemon reverse engineering team) for the Pokemon 
Yellow disassembly as well as the pret community for being very helpful and providing tons of tutorials. This hack would not
have been possible without them.

Included is the .bps patch for Cramorant Edition which needs to be patched onto a clean English ROM of Pokémon Yellow. Also
included is an 'Extras' folder, containing a spreadsheet of important information and guides related to all changes made in Cramorant Edition such as locations
of wild Pokémon, movesets of Pokémon, move information, location of hidden items, and more. Also in the 'Extras' folder is a the pokecramaltvoice.bps patch if you wish to
have Cramorant use voice clips from Sword/Shield that were present in older versions of this hack instead of the voices from Detective Pikachu Returns.


How to play:
1. Acquire a clean English Rom of Pokémon Yellow. If you're not sure how, Google is your friend.
2. Download Rom patching software, or visit any website that can patch .bps files to a Gameboy/Gameboy Color Rom.
(Website - https://hack64.net/tools/patcher.php)
(Software - https://www.romhacking.net/utilities/1040/)
3. In the patcher, choose the .gbc Rom as the base, and pokecram.bps as the patch.
4. Save Rom name as whatever you want. Make sure the file extension is saved as a .gbc
5. Load the patched Rom into any Gameboy/Gameboy Color emulator and enjoy! Alternatively, you can put the Rom onto a
flash cart to play on real hardware. (NOTE: Some emulators have difficulty playing Cramorant’s voice clips. 
If they sound too quiet in-game, try using a different emulator. For desktop, I recommend mGBA or BGB.)

Thanks for playing!

Credits:
Created by Cram-o-dev

Special Thanks:
Vortyne - Whose code I borrowed (with permission) for a few quality of life improvements. (Go check out their Gen 1 hack "PureRGB" https://github.com/Vortyne/pureRGB)
Damien Doury - Who created a new intro sequence for the hack and modified some code for extra visual touches.
Rainbow Metal Pigeon - Who gave me some advice and feedback during development.
French Orange - Who provided feedback and polished a couple of sprites and other artwork during development.


Main Features:
Journey through the region, beat Team Rocket, collect all badges, catch every Pokemon, and become the Champ with a 
Cramorant by your side!
Following Pikachu has been replaced with Following Cramorant! Every sprite, graphic, sound, and text associated with 
Pikachu has been changed to fit with Cramorant. Cramorant’s movepool, experience growth, and stats are loosely based off 
of Pokemon Sword/Shield.
Pikachu’s Beach minigame is now Cramorant’s Beach! As long as Cramorant knows Surf, you can play it!
New exclusive battle move added for Cramorant.
Many wild and Trainer Pokemon have had their levels raised slightly in an effort to provide more of a challenge.
Extra Pokemon! Cramorant and 2 other Pokemon have been added which brings the total amount to 154!
Extra battles! A few additional trainers have been added.
Greater Pokemon trainer variety. Trainers now use a bigger selection of Pokemon. Many Pokemon never that never got a 
chance to shine in battle will get their moment!
Some move animations which involved rapid flashing have been toned down for those with photosensitivity.
Greater wild Pokemon variety. Many rare Pokemon can now be found in several locations, and Pokemon that couldn’t 
previously be found in the wild are waiting to be encountered!
All 151+ Pokemon are obtainable in-game without the need for trading or glitches, and can be infinitely encountered!
A few minor locations have been added for new events. Many maps have also received some touch-ups to look nicer, and a 
few have been altered to be less claustrophobic (like Cerulean and Fuschia City). Many of the CUT trees have been removed. 
A couple of new buildings also open up after you become champion!
Hold B at any time in the overworld to move faster while walking, surfing, or biking.
The Item Bag can be sorted by pressing Start while opened.
Tons of additional hidden items! Search suspicious places for them.
More forgiving Safari Zone. The amount of steps allowed to take has been increased substantially! More Safari Balls are 
also given to the player and many Safari Zone Pokemon have been made slightly easier to catch!
Additional flavor text has been added. Several background objects now have descriptive text associated with them, such as 
Red’s bed or the windows in Vermilion Gym.
Some beta and unused content included! Unused music (like Giovanni’s theme) as well as unused graphics and text have been 
added. A few music tracks have also been replaced by songs adapted from the Generation 2 games.
Various bug fixes. Many Generation 1 bugs were fixed in Yellow, while Cramorant Edition fixes a few more minor errors and 
quirks. Any bugs which provided a negative experience for the player have been fixed.
Super Game Boy compatible! Comes with its own set of color palettes and its own border!
Link Cable compatible with the base Generation 1 games. Note that minor issues occur if Pokemon from Cramorant Edition are 
traded to base Yellow, and vice-versa.

Features adapted from other projects and tutorials on the pokered and pokeyellow wiki (found on Github):
Better game corner. Faster and more forgiving slots along with the ability to repeatedly buy coins. (Adapted from Pokemon PureRGB by Vortyne.)
Repels can now be used immediately after they expire like in the modern games. (Included from Pokemon PureRGB.)
A much better Itemfinder! It’s now actually useful by pointing you in the direction of hidden items and giving feedback 
based on how close to them you are. (Included from Pokemon PureRGB.)
The left and right d-pad can now be used while shopping to decrease/increase the amount of items by 10. (Included from Pokemon PureRGB.)
The low health alarm now only beeps four times before stopping. No need to annoy the player with constant ringing. (Included from Pokemon PureRGB.)
Pokemon no longer waste turns after waking up from sleep and can attack that same turn!
Player now turns to face trainers when spotted by them like in other Pokemon games.
A move deleter and re-learner have been added which allow you to delete any Pokemon move (including HMs) and learn any 
moves they’ve known previously!
Improved Exp. All which shares more exp between remaining Pokemon and gives less text messages.
"Retire" option added to Safari Zone, allowing players to instantly quit safari game (Included from pokered-speedchoice.)
Pokeball icon appears in battle to indicate previously captured Pokemon.

Version 1.1 Changelog:
Pokemon will now always be afflicted with SLP when sleep status moves are successfully used.
Game Corner coins can now be redeemed for $1500 if your total money is under $8000 and above $1499 like they should.
The Super Rod will now fish up the correct Pokemon or tell the player if no Pokemon can be found. No more battles with glitchy Cue Balls or level 250 Arcanine.
Rival 1's victory text on Route 22 has been formatted correctly and the Softboiled TM guy in Celadon has minor text grammar fix.
If enemy Pokémon uses Gulp Missile, the fish animation graphics will now appear by the player's Pokemon.
Ekans has a 1% chance of appearing in the grass on Route 22.
Cramorant can now learn Water Gun and Metronome by TM.
The TM for Metronome can be bought from the Celadon Dept. Store.
Repels can now be bought from the Pewter Pokemart.
The salesman in the Mt. Moon Pokecenter now sells the player an Abra for $3000.
Abra now learns Tackle at level 11.
Many Pokemon found by Super Rod have had their levels buffed slightly. Starmie can also be fished up with a Super Rod in the bottom two floors of Seafoam Island.
Added flavor text for the window in player's bedroom.
More minor glitches have been fixed to provide a smoother experience.

Version 1.2 Changelog:
Expanded movesets and level up moves of every Pokémon. Pokémon now can learn a greater variety of moves.
Boosted catch rates of every Pokémon, making several easier to catch.
New catching Cramorant introduction sequence added by Damien Doury.
Many trainers have fewer repeat Pokémon species and even greater team variety. Some levels have been adjusted too.
Added new move dragon-type move Dragonbreath. Has chance of paralyzing opponents.
Ultra and Safari Ball catch rate improved.
Credits music sped-up slightly.
Added CD Player key item. Plays all music from game. Speak with Cram-o-dev in Celadon Mansion 2F post-game to receive.
Cram-o-dev congratulates player and offers additional hints for secrets and post-game content.
Player's Pokémon are fully healed after beating champion rival.
Added Cramorant plush to player's bedroom postgame. Decoration.
Added Trophy to player's bedroom after defeating the Super Boss. Gives infinite Rare Candy.
New Cramorant portraits for intro sequence.
Max bag capacity increased from 20 to 35. Max PC storage capacity increased from 50 to 55.
Added Kincho01 track from Red/Green source leak. Plays when interacting with Creepy Flower Lady and new journal in Pokémon Mansion.
Touchups to surprised Cramorant portrait.
Replaced lightning bolt slot graphics with Cramorant feathers.
Fixed error which prevented Cramorant learning Surf or Bubblebeam portrait from appearing.
Oak's Evaluation text re-worded to better fit new Pokédex requirements.
Cerulean Badge Guy text properly reflects boosts given by Thunder and Soul Badge.
Trade evolution Pokémon can evolve by trade again in addition to the Link Cable.
Removed Cut tree from Route 13 and one Cut tree in Celadon Gym.
Re-worded some text to flow much better or provide additional information.
Replaced dialogue for NPC in S.S. Anne bottom hallway.
Adjust some trainer's line of sight to allow player to sneak past/require battle.
Fully connected Seafoam Islands, no longer requiring player to use Surf to move between entrances.
Signs outside Seafoam Islands updated to specify north and south entrances.
Seafoam Islands interior now uses a slightly modified version of the unused 0F color palette in GBC mode. SGB mode uses exact 0F palette.
Fixed bugged Seafoam Islands interior tiles to have proper collision.
Overworld sprites of two trainers near Seafoam Islands which would occasionally glitch have been moved around so that this no longer happens.
Way of the Fish sister now congratulates player when talked to after receiving Arrokuda.
Buyable Rare Candy and Safari Ball price reduced.
Some 1% Pokémon encounters have been made slightly more common.
Female trainer searching for Pikachu in Viridian Forest in now properly placed within the grass. (Fixed from Yellow).
Sign added to counter in Celadon Mart 2F which lists available TM's.
Touchups done to some tiles in Cerulean Cave B2F and Victory Road.
Certain moves have had their power, accuracy, typing, or effects adjusted.
Nurse accepts Pokémon in Pokécenter twice as fast.
1/256 move accuracy glitch fixed.
1/256 critical hit fail fixed.
Jump Kick and Hi Jump Kick now does proper recoil damage to player's Pokémon.
Psychic Pokémon are now weak to Ghost moves instead of immune.
Edited warps in Saffron Gym to allow easier path to Sabrina and return to entrance.
Fixed bug from earlier version where moves which had a chance to paralyze opponent would never paralyze.
Fixed bug from earlier version where 2nd battle against champion rival would display wrong text.
Player actually needs all 154 Pokémon to get Diploma from Game Freak.
Reduced Safari Zone steps from 3500 to 2000. 3500 was too much.
Adjusted some of the prize Pokémon levels.
Fixed bugged hidden items which prevented them from appearing, and added hidden Coin in Pokémon Mansion basement.
Modified Marty and Bart trade NPC's to ask for a different species.
Nurse on 9F of Silph Co. uses healing sound effect when healing Pokémon.
Fixed bugged dialogue and Mew encounter in Vermilion Dock.
Many more bugfixes done for bugs present in original Yellow and Cramorant Edition.
Added "Jimmy" text easter egg in Cramorant Fan Club.

Version 1.3 Changelog:
Player can now hold B while walking, surfing, or biking to move faster. Extra dialogue has been included in-game from Mom, Bike Clerk, and Surf HM guy to tell players about this.
Many move animations involving rapid flashing like Thunderbolt and Hyper Beam have had their flashing reduced. A few more moves like Leer and Glare have had their animations edited.
Focus Energy now correctly quadruples critical hit rate instead of quartering it.
Using status curing items no longer resets modified stats.
Critical hits now take into account status buffs rather than ignore them.
If played in Gameboy Color mode, GBC 2x CPU is enabled while in overworld, fixing a lot of lag, including the boulders in Victory Road.
Pokeball icon added to HUD in battle to indicate previously caught Pokemon like in future generations.
Pressing B during a wild battle immediately moves the cursor to the Run option. Added a sign by Mt. Moon Pokemon Center to tell players about this.
Bag can be sorted by pressing Start while in the bag menu. Plays a previously unused sound effect while sorting items. Edited sign on Route 13 to also tell players about this feature.
Game no longer crashes if player somehow goes out of bounds.
Cerulean Badge House plays Cerulean City music inside like the rest of the city.
Altered some Pokemon encounters in Pokemon Tower 6F and 7F to remove buggy Marowak encounter.
Move animations will remain off in the Champion fight if the player disabled them.
Re-worded the order of mentioned types in Brock Gym Guide text.
A few trainers have had their Pokemon's levels and moves adjusted to be more reasonably difficult for the player.
Retire option added to menu while in Safari Zone, allowing player to immediately quit the Safari game.
Slightly increased the power of Swift.
Every Pokemon now gets 100% of exp if they participated in battle.
Improved the Exp. All to distribute more Exp to non-active Pokemon. Also prints just one message for other Pokemon instead of each individual one.
Slightly raised requirement to get Exp. All from 25 to 30.

Version 1.4 Changelog:
Cramorant now uses voice clips from Detective Pikachu Returns. An alternate patch for its sounds from Sword/Shield used in older versions of the hack can be found in the 'Extras' folder.
Fixed bugged dialogue in Celadon Mansion 2F with Cram-o-dev, and Cram-o-dev now properly rewards the player with an item after becoming the champ.
Tidied up a few minor bits of dialogue to keep them consistent with the rest of the game.