Patch to a clean Pokemon - Red Version (UE) [S][!] rom.

This is Gen 1 Dex replacement and other things that is best experienced blind.
If you really need to know about what or where beast or moves is, consult the other documents in the zip.

2.0 is a complete overhaul of Star Beasts 1.0, "Meteor Version", rechristened "Asteroid Version."
It should be a more polished, "complete" experience in comparison to 1.0.

We hope you have fun!

Credits:
Vast Fame for majority of original sprites
Mufeet for new sprites, improved sprites, most of the monster backsprites, border, trainer sprites, etc
AnInternetsEcho for the protag design
Mauve Sea for several monster sprites and redesigns and a lot of backsprites, a handful of trainer sprites, as well as nearly all of the new tilesets (including the new text border)
DevilRedd for the Star Beasts logo, Mufeet for the current one
Game Freak for Pokemon Red
Pret for the Pokered disassembly on GitHub, without which this wouldn't have been possible
Dannye for Pokered-Crysaudio, and EXP Bar code
jojobear13 for TMs and HMs displaying names code
Vortiene for help with coding new overworld encounters and areas, improved level-up code
Xillicis for fixing the inventory code
The wonderful people at the QuarantineDex server for playtesting

Changelog:
v2.0 - Initial Release
v2.01 - Fixed a few beasts having missing menu sprites, "Starmon" typo
v2.02 - Fixed a gamebreaking bug with accessing dex entries in the overworld

FAQ:
Q: The game's too hard!
A: There are multiple new in-game trades and overworld encounters explicitly designed to make the game easier.

Q: I picked up Exp. All and now the game's too easy!
A: Exp. All in this game works the way Exp Share does in later gens. If you want a challenge, don't pick it up.

Q: Is there more content than vanilla gen 1?
A: Yes. There are several new areas with new content, as well as a new postgame area.

Q: How do I move that one boulder that's too heavy to move?
A: You don't and can't.

Known Glitches:
Music can sound wrong or loop improperly on older, less accurate emulators. (VisualboyAdvance, older versions of NO$GBA, older versions of TGB Dual, etc)
Use a more accurate emulator like BGB or MGBA.

Certain areas and encounters can cause crashes or softlocks on less accurate emulators. If you're stuck on a less accurate emulator, save often.
If you enter a certain area in Celadon City (you'll know it when you see it) and you're using a less accurate emulator, DON'T SAVE in that area. 
Make a savestate or use a more accurate emulator.

Rewinding has a chance to cause severe glitches and even hard crashes. It's probably better if you make a savestate and try to avoid rewinding.
This problem also exists in vanilla gen 1 to a lesser extent.

Reviving a fainted Beast that fainted due to recoil damage will result in the Beast being poisoned. 
Give it something that heals poison or heal it at a Star Beast Center.

Note: The inventory glitches listed below SHOULD be fixed, but are still listed here just for posterity.

Some items will display the wrong name when deposited. This is just a visual glitch, nothing's happening to your items.

Sometimes, depositing items can crash the game. Save and reload before depositing items. We're currently not sure what causes this.
Using items outside in Saffron City can also cause this.

VIEWING THE HALL OF FAME AGAIN FROM THE PC AFTER BEATING THE ELITE FOUR HAS NOT BEEN TESTED, USE AT YOUR OWN RISK.
MULTIPLAYER HAS NOT BEEN TESTED. USE AT YOUR OWN RISK.

A note to anyone who decides to rehost this outside of RHDN / Github / Pokecommunity:

Star Beasts Asteroid has box art, so please don't use the title screen for box \ cartridge art, please and thank you.
Said box art is here: https://imgur.com/FJl1dHV

Star Beasts / 星兽 有盒子艺术，所以请停止使用盒子\墨盒艺术的标题屏幕，谢谢。
所述盒子艺术作为 png 包含在 zip 文件中。

also to the 4channer who said this project was "yet another abandoned hack"

you were wrong