This is a Pokemon Gold hack that allows you to catch ALL 251 pokemon without trading... because trading is a pain when using an emulator...

Here is where to find the previously unobtainable pokemon:

I am only giving locations, NOT time of day... some pokemon might only show up during some parts of the day (Hint: Vulpix enjoys the night time and sleeps through the mornings)

All pokemon from Gold and Silver, that are catchable, will be catchable in the area that they were obtained in the regular version of the game... This is a Gold hack so you will have an easier time finding the pokemon obtainable in Gold but the Silver only pokemon (e.g. Phanpy, Delibird, Meowth, ect.) can be found in the locations that they are normally in in Silver version. AGAIN this is a Gold hack, so if its rare in Gold, it will still be rare, even if its common in Silver.

Chikorita/Cyndaquil/Totodile can be found just past New Bark Town... in Route 27

Bulbasaur/Charmander/Squirtle can be caught just outside Pallat Town... on Route 21 ;)

Kabuto/Omanyte are hanging out in Union Cave

Alakazam is on Route 28 Near the Poke Center
Golem is in Mt Silver
Gengar is in Tin Tower
Machamp is in Dark Cave
Polytoad is on Route 32 
Slowking is in Slowpokes Well
Steelix is in the final room of Mt Silver.
Kingdra is in the Whirl Islands
Porygon2 is on Route 16
Scizor can be caught in the National Park

Articuno/Zapdos/Moltres/Mew/Mewtwo have all been integrated into in-game trades

Extra Tyrogue Can be found getting into shape in the basement of Mt Mortar. 

Celebi can be found in the Ruins Of Alph at night (VERY RARE CHANCE)

Many of these Pokemon will still be very rare (as low as a 1% chance of finding them) for instance you will find a TON of Tangela in route 21 but very few Squirtle...

INSTRUCTIONS:

For to patch this IPS file you only need the contents of this .rar file and your origional copy of Pokemon Gold Version (USA,Europe)(SGB Enhanced).

Unzip this .rar archive (I use WinRAR) to any location on your computer.
Add your Pokemon Gold Version rom to that folder.
Double click the "Lunar IPS.exe" application
Once it is opened click "Apply IPS Patch"
Then select the "Pokemon - Gold Version (Emu Edition).ips" file
Next you will be prompted to select your clean copy of Pokemon Gold Version... 
After you select your rom the patch will be applied... 

Enjoy it!

Special thanks goes out to the guys at Swampert Tools aswell as "DigitalZero Domain" of www.romhacking.net for making this hack possible.