Pokemon Red Emu Edition.

Imagine playing your awsome origional pokemon games on your emulator... and you cant catch em all... Literally... you cant do it... Why? BECAUSE YOU CANT TRADE!!!

So I made a Red optimized for Emulation... its got ALL the pokemon in it ;)

Here is where to find the previously unobtainable pokemon:

All pokemon from Red and Blue, that are catchable, will be catchable in the area that they were obtained in the regular version of the game... This is a Red hack so you will have an easier time finding the pokemon obtainable in Red but the Blue only pokemon (e.g. Sanshrew, Bellsprout, Meowth, ect.) can be found in the locations that they are normally in in Blue version. AGAIN this is a Red hack, so if its rare in red, it will still be rare, even if its common in Blue.

Kabuto/Omanyte have been inserted into the bottom basement of Seafoam Island at Lv. 5 ;) right where you would get them if you revived them from fossils.

Hitmonlee and Hitmonchan can be found in the safari zone... in the East and West respectively... both at Lv. 5 for training purposes.

Starting Pokemon can be caught just outside Pallat Town... on Route 21 ;) all at Lv. 5

Trade Pokemon (Alakazam, Gengar, ect.) have been inserted into the Basement of the Unknown Dungeon at Lv. 20 so you can still train them to your liking.

And lastly you can pick up extra Lv. 5 Eevees by paying 800 coins in the Celedon Game Corner.

Some of these Pokemon will still be rare (as low as a 1% chance of finding them) for instance you will find a TON of Tangela in route 21 but very few Squirtle...

I see no reason to do this to Blue Version... If there is a demand I will do it though... 

INSTRUCTIONS:

For to patch this IPS file you only need the contents of this .rar file and your origional copy of Pokemon Red Version (USA,Europe)(SGB Enhanced).

Unzip this .rar archive (I use WinRAR) to any location on your computer.
Add your Pokemon Red Version rom to that folder.
Double click the "Lunar IPS.exe" application
Once it is opened click "Apply IPS Patch"
Then select the "Pokemon - Red Version (Emu Edition).ips" file
Next you will be prompted to select your clean copy of Pokemon Red Version... 
After you select your rom the patch will be applied... 

Enjoy it!

Special thanks goes out to the guys at Swampert Tools for making the "PrizeEdit GB" utility aswell as Harrison for making the "RBY Wild Pokémon Editor" and lastly RiGaMoRTiS PRoDuCTioNZ for their "HebeGB9x" which cleared up my checksum problem. 

NOTE:
origionally I wanted to name it "Violet Version" but I could not find the tiles to edit the "Red Version" on the start up screen... so if anyone knows how to edit that title screen... I think Violet is a much better name... since its a mix of red and blue... I would appreciate the info...
and dont just give me the "read this tutorial" crap... I did... I tried everything but could not find them... I found the tiles to edit the big "Pokemon" and the logos at the bottom... just not the "Red Version" :(