The Juicy Bits: Stuff that are actually ruined by spoilers



If you'd prefer to stay blind going through here, I think you might want to close out of the program now.








You okay with spoiling the fun?




Okay. Don't say you weren't warned, m8.




The changed information is as follows:


Wild Pokemon

Mankey - Route 37, any time except night
Growlithe - Route 34, any time except morning
Spinarak - Route 29, night.
Gligar - Union Cave 1, any time.
Teddiursa - Route 35, Night
Mantine - Olivine City, Surfing
Chikorita - Route 31, Morning
Cyndaquil - Route 31, Day
Totodile - Route 30, Day.
Bulbasaur - Route 32, Day
Squirtle - Route 32, Night
Charmander - Route 32, Morning
Omanyte - Union Cave 3, Fridays
Kabuto - Union Cave 3, Fridays
Articuno - Ice Path 5, Night
Zapdos - Tin Tower 9, Night
Moltres - Mt. Mortar High Level Area, Night
Mewtwo - Silver Cave 3, Morning (where Red is)
Mew - Mt. Moon, Morning.
Celebi - Diglett's Cave, Day


Master Ball Info

You can now purchase Master Balls for 2500$... once you figure out which store it's in ;) Wait this is the Spoiler Section. I have to. It's in Celadon Dept. Store, 5F, where the X Item Store was.


Major Trainer Changes

Falkner

Has a Farfetch'd instead of Pidgeotto. Farfetch'd has a Stick, boosting its Crit Ratio so be careful.

Bugsy

Those cocoons have evolved! They're lower level, though.

Whitney

Everyone's favorite Gym Leader got an upgrade in the form of a... Teddiursa. It has Focus Energy, which is an Egg Move for it. Miltank's level dropped by 2, meaning it no longer has Milk Drink.

Morty

Morty opens with Misdreavus. The last Haunter has an icy surprise: Ice Punch.

Chuck

Chuck got one hell of an upgrade: Hitmonchan. It has all the elemental punches, plus Dynamicpunch. Poliwrath no longer has Dynamicpunch, but has Body Slam instead.

Jasmine

One of her Magnemites has evolved (same moveset though), and she also has a Skarmory. Her Steelix is lower level.

Pryce

Increased the level of all Pokemon. Now has a Cloyster.

Clair

No change. You cannot improve perfection. (I'm a Clair Fanboy and that's now the world's problem -Evil Laughter-)

Will

Replaced first Xatu with Girafarig. Added an Alakazam.

Koga

Venomoth has Giga Drain instead of Gust. Has a Weezing. It likes to explode.

Bruno

Added Donphan. It has Body Slam, an Egg Move for the line.

Karen

Added Wobbuffet. Good luck. Also gave Gengar Shadow Ball instead of Lick.

Lance

The Level 47 Dragonites moves were changed. Both know Dragonbreath instead of Twister, and have Agility and Waterfall respectively instead of Thunder Wave.

Brock

Increased level. This is supposed to be post game, after all. Has Golem, Rhydon, and Aerodactyl, but no Graveler or Rhyhorn. Some Pokemon have Egg Moves. Brock IS a breeder, after all.

Misty

Added Corsola and Mantine. Most Pokemon have Egg Moves. Increased level. Lapras has a fun surprise if you're caught unaware.

Lt. Surge

Increased Level. Added Lanturn and Ampharos, dropped 1 Electrode. Shifted moves around, including adding Egg Moves.

Erika

Added Parasect and Vileplume. Increased Level. Gave Egg Moves, etc.

Janine

Added Arbok and Tentacruel, subtracted 1 Weezing. Increased Level and Shifted Moves around to be as annoying and Toxic as possible.

Sabrina

Added Slowking, Hypno, and Jynx. Increased level, changed moves.

Blaine

Added Ninetales, Arcanine, and Flareon. Increased level, shifted moves around.

Blue

Increased Level, shifted moves.

Red

Pokemon are holding Light Ball, Scope Lens, Leftovers, and Type Booster items. Espeon swapped for Tyranitar. Moves shifted to hopefully optimize type coverage.

Pokemon House in Viridian Change

The final opponent is... me. Yes. A team of my favorite Pokemon, optimized as I would do so, all at Level 60. 

Team Spoiler

Steelix
Item: Scope Lens
Moves: Rock Slide, Earthquake, Iron Tail, Crunch

Shuckle
Item: Polkadot Bow
Moves: Toxic, Rest, Wrap, Snore

Magmar
Item: MiracleBerry
Moves: Confuse Ray, Flamethrower, Thunderpunch, Karate Chop

Hypno
Item: TwistedSpoon
Moves: Hypnosis, Dream Eater, Fire Punch, Headbutt

Nidoking
Item: Brightpowder
Moves: Thrash, Detect, Earthquake, Submission

Heracross
Item: Black Belt
Moves: Megahorn, Reversal, Endure, Earthquake